# `changelog`

This section contains the configuration options for changelog generation.

<!-- {% raw %} -->

```toml
[changelog]
header = "Changelog"
body_template = """
{% for group, commits in commits | group_by(attribute="group") %}
    ### {{ group | upper_first }}
    {% for commit in commits %}
        - {{ commit.message | upper_first }}
    {% endfor %}
{% endfor %}
"""
trim_body_whitespace = true
footer_template = "<!-- generated by git-cliff -->"
postprocessors = [{ pattern = "foo", replace = "bar"}]
exclude_ungrouped_changes = false
```

<!-- {% endraw %} -->

### header

A static header that will be added to the beginning of the changelog.

### body_template

A Tera template to be rendered for each release in the changelog.

See [templating](/docs/category/templating) for more detail.

### footer_template

A Tera template that will be rendered and added to the end of the changelog.

The template context is the same as [`body_template`](#body_template) and contains all the releases instead of a single release.

For example, to get the list of releases, use the `{{ releases }}` variable in the template. To get information about a single release, iterate over this array and access the fields similar to [`body_template`](#body_template).

See [Keep a Changelog configuration](/docs/templating/examples#keep-a-changelog) for seeing the example of adding links to the end of the changelog.

### trim_body_whitespace

If set to `true`, leading and trailing whitespace are removed from every line in the rendered [`body_template`](#body_template).

It is useful for adding indentation to the template for readability, as shown [in the example](#changelog).

### postprocessors

A list of postprocessors using regex to modify the changelog.
Can e.g. be used for replacing commit author with GitHub usernames.
Internally postprocessors and preprocessors are the same. See [commit.message_preprocessors](/docs/configuration/commit#message_preprocessors) for more detail and examples, it uses the same syntax.

### exclude_ungrouped_changes

If set to `true`, commits that do not have a group assigned to them by either [`commit.parse_conventional_commits`](/docs/configuration/commit#parse_conventional_commits) or [`commit.commit_parsers`](/docs/configuration/commit#commit_parsers) are excluded from the changelog.
